README.md, before:

# `QAOAKit`: A Toolkit for Reproducible Application and Verification of QAOA

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
![Tests](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/actions/workflows/python-package-conda.yml/badge.svg)

### RUN THE PROGRAM WITHOUT INSTALLING QAOA, by Kun

Author: Kun Liu

We want to modify and add our own local methods.

DO NOT `pip install QAOAKit`.

`git clone` this repo, and `cd` into the top folder of this repo,
then
```
conda create -n qaoa python=3.8
conda activate qaoa
python -m QAOAKit.build_tables
```

python=3.8 works for my Linux and Mac M1 system.

Then all the `from QAOAKit` in this repo is importing from local folder `QAOAKit/`.

Try:
```
python n_optima_and_mitiq.py
```

It should require a lot of package to install. You could install one by one according to
error message.

Another easy way out is using my requirements.txt:
```
pip install -r Mac_M1_requirements.txt
```

However, it works on Mac M1 and Linux. It might not be working on Windows.


### Installation

Recommended: create an Anaconda environment

```
conda create -n qaoa python=3
conda activate qaoa
```

Note that current implementation requires significant amounts of RAM (~5GB) as it loads the entire dataset into memory. Linux and macOS are currently supported.

```
pip install QAOAKit
python -m QAOAKit.build_tables
```

### Example

```python
import networkx as nx
from qiskit.providers.aer import AerSimulator
from QAOAKit import opt_angles_for_graph, angles_to_qaoa_format
from QAOAKit.qaoa import get_maxcut_qaoa_circuit

# build graph
G = nx.star_graph(5)
# grab optimal angles
p = 3
angles = angles_to_qaoa_format(opt_angles_for_graph(G,p))
# build circuit
qc = get_maxcut_qaoa_circuit(G, angles['beta'], angles['gamma'])
qc.measure_all()
# run circuit
backend = AerSimulator()
print(backend.run(qc).result().get_counts())
```

Almost all counts you get should correspond to one of the two optimal MaxCut solutions for star graph: `000001` or `111110`.

For graphs where no pre-optimized angles are available, the angles from "The fixed angle conjecture for QAOA on regular MaxCut graphs" ([arXiv:2107.00677](https://scirate.com/arxiv/2107.00677)) will be returned.

### Advanced usage

More advanced examples are available in `examples` folder:

- Using optimal parameters in state-of-the-art tensor network QAOA simulator [QTensor](https://github.com/danlkv/QTensor): [`examples/qtensor_get_energy.py`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/qtensor_get_energy.py)
- Transferring parameters to large unseen instances: unweighted ([`examples/Transferability_to_unseen_instances.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/Transferability_to_unseen_instances.ipynb)) and weighted ([`examples/weighted_transfer.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/weighted_transfer.ipynb))
- Exploring the role of problem structure in QAOA performance [`examples/QAOA_symmetry_and_performance.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/QAOA_symmetry_and_performance.ipynb)
- Exploring the performance of QAOA on small graphs as a function of average degree: [`examples/performance.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/performance.ipynb)
- Running classical algorithms for MaxCut: [`examples/classical_algorithms.py`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/classical_algorithms_vs_qaoa.py)
- Comparing QAOA with classical algorithms for MaxCut: [`examples/classical_vs_quantum.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/classical_vs_quantum.ipynb)
- Clustering degenerate QAOA angles: [`examples/degenerate_optima_in_angle_space.py`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/degenerate_optima_in_angle_space.py)

### Citation

Please cite the following paper when using QAOAKit:

```
@article{2110.05555,
Author = {Ruslan Shaydulin and Kunal Marwaha and Jonathan Wurtz and Phillip C. Lotshaw},
Title = {QAOAKit: A Toolkit for Reproducible Study, Application, and Verification of the QAOA},
Year = {2021},
Eprint = {arXiv:2110.05555},
Howpublished = {In Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Quantum
  Computing Software (in conjunction with SC21), 2021},
}
```

Consider citing relevant papers for the particular dataset you use as well.

### Install from source

```
git clone https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit.git
cd QAOAKit
pip install -e .
python -m QAOAKit.build_tables
pytest
```

If you have an issue like "Illegal Instruction (core dumped)", you may have to force pip to recompile Nauty binaries (`pip install --no-binary pynauty pynauty`) or install Nauty separately: https://pallini.di.uniroma1.it/

#### Contributing

You should set up the linter to run before every commit.
```
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```
Note that linter checks passing is a necessary condition for your contribution to be reviewed.

We are in the process of moving the codebase to numpy-style docstrings. See documentation here: https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html

Commit message:

docs: update README and requirement to run mitiq

README.md, after:

# `QAOAKit`: A Toolkit for Reproducible Application and Verification of QAOA

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
![Tests](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/actions/workflows/python-package-conda.yml/badge.svg)

### RUN THE PROGRAM WITHOUT INSTALLING QAOA, by Kun

Author: Kun Liu

We want to modify and add our own local methods.

DO NOT `pip install QAOAKit`.

`git clone` this repo, and `cd` into the top folder of this repo,
then
```
conda create -n qaoa python=3.9
conda activate qaoa
python -m QAOAKit.build_tables
```

python=3.9 works for my Linux and Mac M1 system.

Then all the `from QAOAKit` in this repo is importing from local folder `QAOAKit/`.

Try:
```
python n_optima_and_mitiq.py
```

It should require a lot of package to install. You could install one by one according to
error message.

Another easy way out is using my requirements.txt:
```
pip install -r Mac_M1_requirements.txt
```

However, it works on Mac M1 and Linux. It might not be working on Windows.


---

If you still fail, here are some information that might help.

`mitiq` does not compatible well with latest Python, NumPy and Qiskit.
They are still upgrading `mitiq` according to this [issue](https://github.com/unitaryfund/mitiq/issues/1385).

Here are my available version I tried and found (Mac M1)

For Python==3.9,
```
conda install numpy==1.20.3
pip install qiskit==0.36.2
```

Install NumPy by pip does not work.


### Installation

Recommended: create an Anaconda environment

```
conda create -n qaoa python=3
conda activate qaoa
```

Note that current implementation requires significant amounts of RAM (~5GB) as it loads the entire dataset into memory. Linux and macOS are currently supported.

```
pip install QAOAKit
python -m QAOAKit.build_tables
```

### Example

```python
import networkx as nx
from qiskit.providers.aer import AerSimulator
from QAOAKit import opt_angles_for_graph, angles_to_qaoa_format
from QAOAKit.qaoa import get_maxcut_qaoa_circuit

# build graph
G = nx.star_graph(5)
# grab optimal angles
p = 3
angles = angles_to_qaoa_format(opt_angles_for_graph(G,p))
# build circuit
qc = get_maxcut_qaoa_circuit(G, angles['beta'], angles['gamma'])
qc.measure_all()
# run circuit
backend = AerSimulator()
print(backend.run(qc).result().get_counts())
```

Almost all counts you get should correspond to one of the two optimal MaxCut solutions for star graph: `000001` or `111110`.

For graphs where no pre-optimized angles are available, the angles from "The fixed angle conjecture for QAOA on regular MaxCut graphs" ([arXiv:2107.00677](https://scirate.com/arxiv/2107.00677)) will be returned.

### Advanced usage

More advanced examples are available in `examples` folder:

- Using optimal parameters in state-of-the-art tensor network QAOA simulator [QTensor](https://github.com/danlkv/QTensor): [`examples/qtensor_get_energy.py`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/qtensor_get_energy.py)
- Transferring parameters to large unseen instances: unweighted ([`examples/Transferability_to_unseen_instances.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/Transferability_to_unseen_instances.ipynb)) and weighted ([`examples/weighted_transfer.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/weighted_transfer.ipynb))
- Exploring the role of problem structure in QAOA performance [`examples/QAOA_symmetry_and_performance.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/QAOA_symmetry_and_performance.ipynb)
- Exploring the performance of QAOA on small graphs as a function of average degree: [`examples/performance.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/performance.ipynb)
- Running classical algorithms for MaxCut: [`examples/classical_algorithms.py`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/classical_algorithms_vs_qaoa.py)
- Comparing QAOA with classical algorithms for MaxCut: [`examples/classical_vs_quantum.ipynb`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/classical_vs_quantum.ipynb)
- Clustering degenerate QAOA angles: [`examples/degenerate_optima_in_angle_space.py`](https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit/blob/master/examples/degenerate_optima_in_angle_space.py)

### Citation

Please cite the following paper when using QAOAKit:

```
@article{2110.05555,
Author = {Ruslan Shaydulin and Kunal Marwaha and Jonathan Wurtz and Phillip C. Lotshaw},
Title = {QAOAKit: A Toolkit for Reproducible Study, Application, and Verification of the QAOA},
Year = {2021},
Eprint = {arXiv:2110.05555},
Howpublished = {In Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on Quantum
  Computing Software (in conjunction with SC21), 2021},
}
```

Consider citing relevant papers for the particular dataset you use as well.

### Install from source

```
git clone https://github.com/QAOAKit/QAOAKit.git
cd QAOAKit
pip install -e .
python -m QAOAKit.build_tables
pytest
```

If you have an issue like "Illegal Instruction (core dumped)", you may have to force pip to recompile Nauty binaries (`pip install --no-binary pynauty pynauty`) or install Nauty separately: https://pallini.di.uniroma1.it/

#### Contributing

You should set up the linter to run before every commit.
```
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```
Note that linter checks passing is a necessary condition for your contribution to be reviewed.

We are in the process of moving the codebase to numpy-style docstrings. See documentation here: https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html
